
    1. Can a class have multiple constructors? What is constructor overloading?
        Yes, a class can have multiple constructors with different parameter lists. This is called constructor overloading. 
        It provides flexibility to create objects in different ways.

    2. Difference between == and .equals() with objects
        To compare object references, we use ==. But to compare object contents or values, we should override and use .equals(). 
        For example, two String objects with the same value will return true with .equals() but false with == unless they point to the same memory.

    3. What is SIB:
        SIB (Static intialization block) is the first block to executed as soon as a class is load in a memory.It is used to instantiate static members.

    4. What is the difference between No-arg constructor and default constructor?
        No-arg constructor is a constructor without arguments.
        Default constructor is a constructor implicitly written by the compiler if a class does not have any constructors. 
        Default constructor is always a No-arg constructor.

    5. Do constructor has a return type?
        explicitly we cant mention a return type to a constructor but as we know after instanciating a class using new keyword
        it returns the object of that class, so we can say that yes implicitly it returns the object. 

    6. Why static methods cannot access non static variables?
       As soon as JVM loads a class first in formose static variables are loaded followed by them static method and static blocks loads
       therefore when static method executes it can't find the instance or non static variables.    
      Since static methods are not tied to any object, they do not have access to instance (non-static) variables, which belong to specific objects.

    7. Why Strings are immutable?
      Strings in Java are immutable, which means once a String object is created, 
      its value cannot be changed. Any operation that seems to modify a string actually creates a new String object in memory.

      String name = "John";
      name = name + " Clark";
      What's really happening:
      The string "John" is stored in the String pool (which is part of the heap), and the reference name in the stack points to it (say address 101).

      When we do name = name + " Clark", a new string object "John Clark" is created in the heap (say address 105), and now name points to this new object.

      The original "John" object remains unchanged in memory.

      So, we are not modifying the original string — we are just changing the reference to point to a new object.


    8. Why Mutiple Inheritence is not directly allowed in JAVA.
        Multiple Inheritence the child class will have multiple Parent class, the problem occurs when two parent 
        class will have same method then which method will child class call. This problem is called Ambiguity so,
        Java does not support multiple Inheritence. 

    9. What is the difference between == & .equals
        '==':- is and operator for primitive type which means if use this operator on primitive types variables like 
        (int,char,float) it will check the values.
        But if use this operator to compare the objects it will compare the memory location of that objects not the actual content.

        .equals:- As we know every class is child class of 'Object' class so if directly use .equals method to compare
                  to objects it will call the .equals method of 'Object' class and that method also compare the memory address same as '=='
                  operator. So if we want to compare the contents we have to overide that method in our child class.
